---
id: utils
title: Utils
sidebar_label: Utils
---

**_Philosophy regarding utils VS classes
Sometimes it's hard to make an agreement about when to use utils and when classes instead. The idea is everytime that it's possible to use a util, use a util._**

**So, when to use classes? I will keep the classes for stuff like:**

- I need to give an specific css that it's really sticky to the component. E.g. a component should have an certain width like 56px, creating a util for that makes not sense.

- A group of styles are repeating all the time. E.g. for an specific list it's needed to have the same 4 utils always and I need to use them in different component.

- And maybe there are other cases as well...
  Thus, I think that the first approach for building something must be using utilities first! And later, if we're in the cases above, then create a class. But never works in the other way: first class, second utils.

This article is really useful for understanding the approach that I would like to follow https://adamwathan.me/css-utility-classes-and-separation-of-concerns/

Another interesting article: https://medium.freecodecamp.org/in-defense-of-utility-first-css-4f406acee6fb

## General

### Float

Don't abuse of floats and don't use them for layout reasons. For layout, there are other techiques (like display) or we can use the grid.css.

### One responsibility

Each class can be only for one thing: styles, javascript or testing. But never the same class can be for the style and javascript.

### Margins VS Padding

Padding should be used for giving space within the component VS Margin should be only use for layout purpose. For this reason, the utils of the margin are only `margin: auto` or margin-bottom. Avoid using margin-left, margin-right or margin-top as in this case you can use padding.

## Naming

- "**c-**" for component
- "**e-**" for element
- "**u-**" for utils
- "**t-**" for testing
- "**js-**" for javascript

## Utils

A file with a name for example ´color.css´, only can content utils for colors, not other things.

```stylesheet
.u-color--red {
    color: red;
}

.u-color--blue {
    color: blue;
}

.u-color--transparent {
    color: transparent;
}
```
